---
title: Agent
tags: [Artificial Intelligence]
mathjax: true
---

### Rational Agent

#### Agent

An entity that perceives and acts

Anything that can be viewed as **perceiving its environment** through sensors; **acting** upon that environment through **actuators**.

##### Agent function

A function from percept histories to actions, i.e., $f: P^* \rightarrow A$

##### Agent program

Runs on the physical architecture to perform $f$

##### agent = architecture + program

#### Rational behavior

doing the "right thing" => expected to achieve best outcome, maximize agent success

##### Performance measure

Objective criterion for measuring success of an agent's behavior

#### Rational Agent

For each possible percept sequence, select an action that is expected to maximize its performance measure, given the evidence provided by the percept sequence and whatever built-in knowledge the agent has.

An agent is **autonomous** if its behavior is determined by its own experience (**with ability to learn and adapt**)

### Task Environment

- Performance measure
- Environment
- Actuators
- Sensors

#### Properties of Task Environments

##### Fully observable (vs. partially observable)

Sensors provide **access to the complete state** of the environment at each point in time

##### Deterministic (vs. stochastic)

The next state of the environment is **completely determined** by the current state and the action executed by the agent.

##### Episodic (vs. sequential)

The choice of current action does not depend on actions in the past episodes.

Alternatively, current action **does not affect future decisions**.

##### Static (vs. dynamic)

The environment is **unchanged** while an agent is deliberating.

##### Discrete (vs. continuous)

A **finite number** of distinct states, percepts, and actions.

##### Single agent (vs. multi-agent)

An agent operating by itself in an environment.

### Agent Functions and Programs

An agent is completely specified by the agent function mapping percept sequences to actions

One agent function (or a small equivalence class) is rational

**Aim**: Find a way to implement the rational agent function concisely

### Table-Lookup Agent

Good for the simple situation.

#### Drawbacks

- **Huge table** to store
- Take a **long time** to build the table
- **No autonomy**: impossible to learn all correct table entries from experience
- **No guidance** on filling in the correct table entries

### Simple Reflex Agent

Only acts when observes a percept.

Updates state based on percept only. (Deterministic, doesn't care about the past)

### Model-Based Reflex Agent

Only acts when observes a percept

state is updated based on percept, current state, most recent action, and model of world.

### Goal-Based Agent

Has goals, acts to achieve them.

state is updated based on percept, current state, most recent action, and model of world.

### Utility-Based Agent

Has utility function, acts to maximize it.

state is updated based on percept, current state, most recent action, and model of world.

### Learning Agent

Updates utility function according to the performance standard.